Mamelodi Sundowns striker Tokelo Rantie is on the offside of the law for allegedly dribbling his lawyers of their legal fees. The former Bafana goal poacher has been dragged to the high court in Joburg by his lawyers Mdhluli, Pearce, Mdzikwa (MPM) Inc for allegedly failing to pay over R120,000 in legal fees. According to court papers, the Free State-born star player owed the lawyers for services rendered during his divorce from Gaositwe Pule. The internationally acclaimed footie, who played for six European clubs including English Premiership side Bournemouth, instructed the law firm to institute divorce proceedings against Pule on November 14 2017, according to the papers filed two weeks ago. "The defendant [Rantie] attended to a consultation on the 14th November 2017 at the plaintiff's place of business in order to seek advice on the process of instituting divorce proceedings against his wife Gaositwe Pule, whom he is married to and such marriage still subsists," read the papers. The papers said the lawyers served Pule with a divorce summons in January 2018. "The plaintiff was instructed to defend the divorce summons under a power of attorney signed by the defendant on November 14 2017," read the papers. Among other services they rendered, the lawyers consulted, researched, drafted papers and defended an urgent motion application instituted by Pule for maintenance in September last year. They also said they defended a warrant of execution applied for by Pule to attach assets belonging to his former employers Cape Town City for her maintenance order on December 2 last year. The lawyers said that on the same date they perused an urgent e-mail from Pule's lawyers Shaheen Bhayat demanding R35,000 payment in maintenance from Rantie. The following day, they said, they arranged with an associate of Pule's lawyers for Rantie's undisclosed items and clothes to be retrieved from their matrimonial home. They said they also liaised with the associate for Rantie's documents and items to be dropped off at a particular location for collection on December 4, but later agreed for the superstar to go to his house accompanied by cops if Pule felt threatened. They also drafted and applied for a variation order to reduce the maintenance quantum he had been paying to Pule and also perused their divorce settlement agreement. The papers show they terminated their legal services after Rantie allegedly refused to foot the bill. The footie also allegedly ignored several letters from them including the one in which they advised him to pay maintenance to Pule to avoid being jailed for contempt of court. "Notwithstanding various written and oral demands of payment, the defendant refuses and /or neglect to pay the above-mentioned outstanding amount to the plaintiff. "Wherefore plaintiff prays for judgment against the defendant for an order for payment of the amount of R96,927.80, an order for payment of R14,400, costs of suit," read the papers. Pumla Nkosi of MPM declined to comment, while Rantsie was not available to comment.