The family of PAC founder Robert Sobukwe has requested that his son's funeral should not be turned into a platform to advance political interests. Dinilesizwe, 65, who was the eldest of Sobukwe's two remaining children, died at a Port Elizabeth hospital on Wednesday after a short illness. Dinilesizwe, who was the second born Robert and Veronica Sobukwe, was the founder of the Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe Trust, which aimed at preserving his father’s legacy, mobilising community networks, partnerships and actions in the interests of social cohesion and pride in community. In a statement released on Thursday evening, the family said it was hurt by the loss. "It is with deep sadness that the Sobukwe family announces the passing of their father, uncle and brother, Mr Dinilesizwe Sobukwe," said family spokesperson Mangaliso Tsepo Sobukwe. "He spent most of his life in exile. His childhood was spent in Lesotho and eSwatini. His adulthood was spent in the United States. "The Sobukwe family is humbled by, and deeply appreciates the well wishes and condolences that they have received. "They humbly request that Dinilesizwe’s funeral not become a platform to advance personal or political interests. "The family is aware that a number of statements have already been made regarding Dinilesizwe’s passing, and would like to inform the public that Mr Mangaliso Tsepo Sobukwe is the only person sanctioned to speak on behalf of the family during this time," he said. Mangaliso said Dinilesizwe will be buried in Graaff-Reinet and the family will confirm the date in due course. He leaves behind his beloved sister, Miliswa Sobukwe, his brother, Dedanizizwe Sobukwe, his two sons, Tsepo and Tsiyamo and his nieces and nephews. His niece, Lisa Sobukwe, said he had fallen ill last week and was admitted to hospital in Graaff-Reinet, where the family lives. But as his condition deteriorated, he was transferred to Livingstone Hospital in Port Elizabeth at the weekend. "My uncle's passing has taken the family by surprise, especially after he had successfully gone through surgery on Tuesday afternoon," Lisa said.