Controversial SuperSport soccer commentator Baba Mthethwa is in trouble with the law after allegedly failing to pay a hefty bill that includes expensive alcohol and food at a swanky Joburg hotel. The Four Seasons Hotel, also known as the Westcliff Hotel, has gone to court to force the Sesotho commentator to cough up more than R60,000 he allegedly owes it. The hotel group approached the Kempton Park magistrate's court late last month after their pleas to Mthethwa to settle the bill fell on deaf ears. According to documents seen by Sunday World, Mthethwa hosted an event titled 20 years of Passion and Excellence with Baba Mthethwa at the plush hotel in 2016. Among other things that Mthethwa and his guests allegedly consumed were 30 tots of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky which cost R1,800, 25 tots of 12-year-old Glenfiddich whisky for R1,625, Jameson whisky, Hennesey VSOP cognac and Mont du Toit wine, as well as food and beers. The total amount of the alcohol consumed, including four Savannas and some vodka, was R18,422. The food bill was R30,189 while water and soft drinks cost R5,681. The venue came in at almost R5,000. The hotel sent Mthethwa a bill of more than R60,000 after the jamboree, but he allegedly failed to settle it. "Despite numerous demands for payment, the defendant failed, refused and/or neglected to effect payment of the plaintiff's final invoice with such failure persisting to date," read the papers. The hotel's lawyers, WerthSchröder Inc, demanded that Mthethwa foot the bill with 10.25% interest calculated from December last year. The summons was delivered at Mthethwa's estranged wife Kgomotso Koosimile's house in Kempton Park. Koosimile confirmed receipt of the summons. "He must stop using the address of my property for his things. This is my house and not his. I worked for it," she said. WerthSchröder Inc said they were not at liberty to comment on the matter, citing lawyer and client confidentiality. Mthethwa declined to comment and instead went on a tirade, accusing this reporter of targeting him and his family.