Pontsho Serumula's prayers have been answered as her allegedly abusive husband will finally get his day in court - although six years later. The 34-year-old mother of three from Thokoza on the East Rand sustained third-degree burns on her upper body and face after her husband allegedly dosed her with acid in 2013. For the past six years her life has not been the same as she works at the same place as her husband and comes across him regularly. Serumula said it took the intervention of minister of police Bheki Cele's office in August last year that her case was finally brought back to court after it had been postponed numerous times. Although she reported the matter more than five years ago, she could not get answers from the police as to why her husband was never arrested. "Seeing my husband walking freely in the streets has been a daunting experience for me. "I no longer have peace of mind as I fear for my life and that of my kids," she said. However, Serumula was over the moon yesterday when the Palmridge magistrate's court set June 11 as the trial date for her husband's attempted murder case. Serumula said her problems started when her husband of 10 years moved out of their matrimonial home to stay with his girlfriend. "On a Sunday, the 13th of April [2013], he came back home after he had been staying with his mistress for three months. "He started declaring his undying love for me but I didn't believe him and so he left again," she said. She said the following day the husband came back carrying a two-litre plastic bottle with liquid inside. "He did not say anything ... he just went straight to the living room. I was busy ironing my work uniform as I was doing night shift that day. "Then I saw him coming towards me and I thought that he was going to beat me up like he used to. "Instead, he poured some liquid over my face and upper body and I rushed outside crying for help as I felt I was burning," she said. Serumula said she spent 14 months in hospital and managed to open a case of attempted murder in 2014 at the Eden Park police station, Ekurhuleni. However, she was sent from pillar to post about the status of the case. At one stage she was told that police couldn't locate her docket, she said. "I am forced to be nice to my abuser so that I don't trigger his anger. "He comes to my place any time he wants. I always fear that he will do something to me and I might not survive this time around," she said. Her husband had not responded to Sowetan's request for comment at the time of going to print.