Being at Kaizer Chiefs has brought right-back Reeve Frosler even closer to his competitor, Ramahlwe Mphahlele. Frosler, 21, arrived at Naturena from Bidvest Wits two months ago and Mphahlele was there to welcome him. Besides their competition for a spot at club level, Frosler has the opportunity to get advice from Mphahlele about international football. Mphahlele has played for SA from junior level to the senior team. Frosler is part of the squad to play Angola in a 2019 CAF U23 Cup of Nations qualifier in Luanda on Friday (5pm SA time). It's part of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic qualifiers. "It's definitely nice for myself stepping up the ranks from the U17s," Frosler told Sowetan yesterday from their camp at Fun Valley, Johannesburg. "I'm excited about the move [to Chiefs]. It gives me a chance to showcase my talent," said Frosler. "It's good to compete with Rama [Mphahlele] and Kgotso Moleko. It brings out the best in each and every player. I'm happy to be working alongside them. It's a learning curve. "I first met Rama when I was with the U17 team before we went to the [2015] World Cup. He was playing at [Mamelodi] Sundowns at the time and I started speaking to him more. So I got to know him on a personal level and he's a nice guy. I've learnt a lot from him." Not only are the lessons from Mphahlele of great benefit, but the lad from Port Elizabeth added that he's become mentally strong since he's been travelling across Africa with the junior national teams. He is therefore at a stage where he can contribute to the success of the U23 squad. "It's tough playing on the African continent. We've been a few times put in hotels where there's hardly any food to eat, but it's all part of your journey and part of your growth in the football career that we have chosen. "You go from eating dry bread and have some water, then play in burning heat [weather conditions]. It's what you got to do to qualify. "But you've got to be up for the challenge and if not, unfortunately we are not going to be successful."