Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) has rejected reports that it sold out its members in the SA Police Service, adding that there is no strike planned for its members tomorrow. The union told reporters on Sunday that messages which have been on social media suggesting that the Popcru had sold its constituency were just  “peddling of lies and misinformation”. “Since our formation, we have never forsaken the plight of these members as it is claimed out there, and we will never desert them despite what critics are preaching,” said Popcru general secretary Nkosinathi Thaledi. Over the past few days, there has been messages circulating in social media believed to be from police members who are not happy with how the union has handled the issue of promotions. The message circulated on social media said specialised units promoted their constables fresh out of college to warrant officers while officers based at the stations were left behind. “Constables with more than 10 years service still remain constables. Sergeants with more than 15 years of services remain sergeants. Warrant officers with 30 plus years service remain warrant officers. Yet an inexperienced members comes out with two years in service to go and join his father on the same rank,” the message said. It then encouraged police officers to mobilise their colleagues and go for industrial action on March 18 as Popcru and the SA Police Union had failed their members. Popcru said three agreements had been signed within the Safety and Security Sectoral Bargaining Council last year. The first agreement dealt with upgrading pilots in the SAPS, another deals with grade progression aimed at giving special dispensation for progression of constables to sergeants, sergeants to warrant officers and warrant officers Band 1 to Band 2.  The last agreement dealt with job evaluation and grading of entry level posts. All the agreements will be implemented in a three year cycled which means not all members will benefit at the same time. Popcru said according to its knowledge there was no strike tomorrow as the union did not receive any mandate from its members for such industrial action. “We don’t know who is coordinating the strike. We want to find out as well,” said Thaledi.