Gauteng premier David Makhura says he has reprimanded sports, arts and culture MEC Faith Mazibuko for the 'racist' comments made to her staff. In his official statement released on Friday, Makhura said Mazibuko’s comments were “totally unacceptable and inconsistent” with what he expects from MECs. Earlier this week, an audio from a management meeting was leaked to the press where Mazibuko could be heard yelling at senior managers. Mazibuko demanded a project for "combi courts" to be completed as she wanted to use it to campaign for elections. In the audio, a member of her staff tried in vain to tell her that they could not find a "legal mechanism" and that "there is not a valid contract in place" to roll out the project but Mazibuko would have none of it. She also told the staff that her office is the only one with a white head of department and an Indian financial officer. "It's clear you are not ready to work in this environment, I empower you you are not empowerable. Which other department has an Indian that is a CFO? Which other department? You are the second one, a woman, you must thank your lucky stars. "Which department has an HOD that is a mlungu? Ayikho including national so you must thank me for empowering you so don't sabotage me," she said. Mazibuko has since apologized for her conduct. Makhura said he has met Mazibuko to discuss her conduct. “I interacted with the MEC and reprimanded her about her behaviour and she subsequently released a statement in which she publicly apologised. I take note of the fact that the governing party has referred the matter to its Integrity Committee.  This is an important step in the internal processes of the ANC,” Makhura said. “As the Premier, I dismiss with contempt any suggestion that we are fast-tracking delivery of long planned projects or putting in place new plans for purposes of winning elections. All our plans are in our annual performance plans (APPs) submitted to the Legislature on an annual basis.” Makhura is expected to also meet the MEC, HOD and CFO of the department on the matter.