A well-known prophet from a village outside Tzaneen, Limpopo, who died three weeks ago, will only be laid to rest after 50 days. The odd request was one of the dying wishes of Ngwako "Prince Madlakadla" Molewa, which has left the community at GaMotupa, who normally bury loved ones within a week or two of dying, astounded. Molewa, who led the Holy Faith Mission Evangelical Church in the village, died on March 1 after a short illness and will be buried on April 20, exactly 50 days later. Molewa's family told Sowetan that the man of the cloth wrote down how he wished to be buried in accordance with the teachings of the Bible. Molewa's son Modalebula said his father had told them that he should at least spend a month in the mortuary before his burial. "He had been preaching about his preferred burial every time in the church. "He referred us and the congregants to the death of Jacob in the book of Genesis and the burial, which took 40 days to prepare," he said. He said his father had informed the local chief and the mortuary of his wish. Modalebula said his father started to prepare for his death in 1999. "In 1999 he wrote his first funeral wish. Then from 2002, 2011, 2014 and 2017 he just updated the letters," he said. He said the letters could only be seen by close family as they contain sensitive information. "The letters include the programme of the funeral and he has chosen the speakers. He also chose where he should be buried," he said. According to a 70-year-old local resident, Molewa's wish was a taboo in the community. "I have... never heard of or saw something like this. In this village we only bury people a week after their passing." Another resident said it was an unusual request. "I have been staying in the area for a long time and have travelled across Bolobedu, but I have never heard of or saw anything like this," he said. Molewa's wife Matsatsi Sebetule, 52, said her husband got sick on February 22 and was admitted to Letaba Hospital. "He was later taken to Kgapane Provincial Hospital where he asked to be discharged after his condition worsened. "He died at home after taking a sip of holy water." Setebule said she was not surprised by her husband's wish but agreed it was unpopular. "He warned us that this was not our culture and people will be shocked but we must not fear," she said.