Kaizer Chiefs centreback Daniel Cardoso believes the team’s lack of trophy success has led to the biggest club in the country struggling to attract the class of player they should. Conversely‚ Cardoso said‚ should Chiefs begin winning trophies again – perhaps beginning with the Nedbank Cup‚ where they meet Cape Town City in Sunday’s quarterfinal at Mbombela Stadium – SA’s greatest glamour club will surely appeal to star quality again. Cardoso signed for Chiefs from Free State Stars just over four years ago expecting to win trophies‚ but it turned out he arrived in an unprecedented three-season dry spell. The centreback‚ who has grown in refinement as a defender at Naturena‚ said that was a record he would want to rectify‚ while he also wants to help Chiefs prevent it from being four trophy-less seasons in the Nedbank. “Ja‚ of course. You know‚ everyone comes to Chiefs to win trophies‚” Cardoso said. “But at the moment‚ I don’t even think anyone wants to come here because we’re not winning anything. “It’s still a big club‚ still a great brand. But‚ I mean‚ if you’re not winning trophies and all of that people start turning around and saying that they want to win trophies. “So I think once we can get that culture back people are going to want to come in here. “I came here to win trophies. It’s just unfortunate I haven’t won one yet. Maybe I brought the bad luck‚” Cardoso grinned‚ hastily adding: “No‚ I’m joking. He continued: “But I’m confident that I will win a cup with the team‚ hopefully starting now. And not just one cup‚ a few cups. “I think since Ernst [Middendorp‚ Chiefs’ coach] came in he’s changed it around. And I think once we have a full preseason under him things will be a lot different. You can see how the style of football has changed. “So ja‚ let’s see. Cape Town City are a good team. You saw their last two games – they beat Wits [3-2] and Sundowns [2-1] coming from behind. “We’ve got to be on our toes. It’s not a small team we are playing against now. “In the past two rounds we played ABC Motsepe League sides‚ and it was tough. I think we made it tough on ourselves because we didn’t take our opportunities‚ didn’t kill the games. “The last one went to extra time and I think if we can learn to kill games a lot earlier‚ and not let it drag‚ it will be a lot easier for us.” Chiefs beat two third division teams on their way to the quarters. They scored in the dying minutes to edge past Tornado FC in East London in the last-32‚ then put three past the Magic FC in extra-time for a 3-0 win in the last-16 in Port Elizabeth. City beat SuperSport United 2-0 then Highlands Park 3-0 in the previous rounds.