Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has cheekily claimed that he does not take the Premier Soccer League’s Q-Innovation seriously because his main focus is on winning the Absa Premiership and the Caf Champions League. The Q-Innovation was an initiative introduced by the PSL as a prize for teams winning the quarter stages of the league. The Brazilians – who meet Bloemfontein Celtic in their league match at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday (kickoff 3.30pm) – this month pocketed R1.5-million after they won Q-Innovation for the second quarter. Downs had five wins‚ two draws‚ no defeat and 17 points from that period. “These things like the Q-Innovation‚ coach and player of the month don’t work‚” Mosimane said this week‚ pointing out that at Sundowns the main objective is the league and the Champions League. “At the end of the day‚ you must win the title. You can win this Q-Innovation thing and somehow find yourself fighting relegation at the end of the season. “I am happy not to win any Q-innovation‚ as long we do well in the league. If I don’t win the league‚ what am I going to do with the Qs. “It is a good incentive for motivation of the players‚ but at Sundowns it is about the trophy‚ the bragging rights and consistency. We are trying to go to after another star [above their badge for winning the Champions League] and we know it is not going to be easy in the league.” Mosimane said league leaders Downs’ challenge in the league is not going to be easy with Orlando Pirates and Bidvest Wits breathing down their necks. “Pirates are rejuvenated and they scored goals last weekend‚ and they are coming back to form‚ and Wits have been strong. You can’t stay at the top of the log for as long as Wits have been if you are not a good team‚” the coach said. “Ever since I have been here at Sundowns for the last five years‚ its either we were top or second at the end of the season. “And tonight we are at the same place we have always been for the last five years and that shows we are a good team. “There is no luck with that and you must remember that we changed players and we remain a team in construction.”