It's almost seven years since Kgotso Moleko arrived at Kaizer Chiefs from Bloemfontein Celtic and many times he's felt like a failure due to a lack of game time. But he's stayed since 2012 and hoped he could play a part in helping the club achieve some success, and now things have changed for the better for Moleko. Under Ernst Middendorp, he's seen a lot of game time. The 29-year-old has played six out of seven league games under the German. "I would like to thank the management for keeping me so long. "It's not easy for a player to be here for more than six years with little game time," Moleko admitted. "Yes, there was a time I wanted to leave and even [football manager] Bobby Motaung knows, but then you get home and your wife is there and tells you 'don't quit, there are kids here'," said Moleko, who mentioned Itumeleng Khune, Ramahlwe Mphahlele and Bernard Parker among the players who have been supportive of him. In the last few months of his contract and with his future not clear even though Middendorp likes him, Moleko is focusing on his playing his part to change the club's disappointing situation. Chiefs are in their fourth season without a trophy. Chiefs have a realistic chance in the Nedbank Cup where they face Cape Town City at home in the quarterfinals this month. But they must first face Highlands Park at Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow (6pm) as they look for their first Absa Premiership win since beating AmaZulu in January. "For now I think it's tough times, but I think everything will come right," Moleko insisted. "My wish is for us to win seven games in a row and maybe we can be somewhere up [on the log]," he added. Meanwhile, Middendorp said forwards Leonardo Castro (groin injury) and Khama Billiat (calf) are doubtful for the match. Middendorp will retain goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi despite the Nigerian international's costly howler against Rise and Shine. Fixtures Tonight: Maritzburg v AmaZulu, Harry Gwala Stadium, 8pm Tomorrow: Sundowns v Celtic, Loftus, 3.30pm; Chiefs v Highlands, Moses Mabhida Stadium, 6pm; FS Stars v Leopards, Goble Park, 6pm; Wits v CPT City, Bidvest Stadium, 8.15pm; Arrows v Pirates, Sugar Ray Xulu Stadium, 8.15pm Sunday: Baroka v Polokwane, Peter Mokaba Stadium, 3.30pm; Chippa v SuperSport, Sisa Dukashe Stadium, 3.30pm