Popular sports presenter Robert Marawa will assume full control of his sports radio show – the Marawa Sports Worldwide (MSW) – on Metro FM and Radio 2000 as part of a shakeup of the airwaves that comes into effect from April 1. MSW airs for an hour (6 to 7 pm) on Metro FM and for two hours (6 to 8pm) on Radio 2000 from Monday to Friday but with the shake-up‚ the show will now be in sync and finish at the same time at 7.30pm on both stations. While the show is simulcast on the two stations‚ Marawa does not have full control and there are instance where Metro FM goes to a commercial break with the presenter in mid-sentence and interviews continuing uninterrupted on Radio 2000. The controls are operated by two different people and this has had an impact on listenership and advertising. This will end on April 1 and Marawa will assume complete control of the show on both stations‚ ensuring that the advert breaks and the jingles are played at the same time. The Radio 2000 listeners will no doubt lament the 30 minutes that will be chopped off the show on their station but on the flip side of the coin‚ the extra half hour will be welcomed by the Metro FM listeners. The simulcast MSW in its current form is clumsy and tricky in that advertising space is not equal by virtue of the show airing from 6 to 7 Metro FM while it extends with an extra hour (6 to 8pm) on Radio 2000. SABC spokesperson Neo Momodu would not be drawn into any confirmation but she did not deny the changes in an emailed response. “The SABC is in the process of reviewing contracts of freelance on-air talent as well as the various programmes in line with industry best practices. “This is an annual process which takes place in February and March and is informed by various factors such as revenue‚ audience performance of the specific programmes or shows‚ return on investment‚ as well as the strategic direction of the various SABC platforms. “Should there be any programme and/or line-up changes‚ the SABC will communicate to its respective stakeholders accordingly‚” said Momodu. In an email seen by SowetanLIVE‚ the SABC indicates that the move will allow their sales department to develop one rate card for the show. This “will ensure that we price it correctly and we attract the right advertiser who is willing to pay for the environment that we are providing”‚ the email clarified.