The luxury car of a Limpopo magistrate was stolen at a lodge near Polokwane after he had passed out after his drink was allegedly spiked. Maribana Michael Mamabolo, 44, had allegedly booked in at the lodge but when he was woken by employees he discovered that his car and cellphone were missing while a female companion he was apparently with had also vanished. The incident occurred on February 23 but the car, a BMW 3-series, was recovered about a week later in Soshanguve, north of Pretoria. Police spokesperson Con Maphure Manamela yesterday said the magistrate had been booked into the accommodation when the incident happened. He was with an unknown woman who he had met earlier that day, police said. "It is understood that the victim had a drink while they were inside one of the rooms and passed out," Manamela said, noting that it was suspected that the drink might have been spiked. "The victim was woken up by the employees at around 7am the following morning and that's when he realised that his cellphone and car, a BMW 3-series, had been stolen," she said, adding that the woman had also disappeared from the lodge. "Upon being immediately notified, we commenced with initial investigations. The stolen car was recovered a week later when it was found abandoned in Soshanguve outside Pretoria." Police have since launched a manhunt for the woman, pictured above, as they believe she can be of assistance in the investigation. Approached for comment yesterday, Mamabolo said he considered the matter "closed" because he had got his car back. He said he had already agreed with the investigating officer that the case be closed. "I'm a respectable member of society and a family man. Please find it in your good heart to drop the story," Mamabolo said. Police have, however, appealed to anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspect(s) or who knows the whereabouts of the person in the picture to contact Warrant Officer Isaac Ntokola on 076-150-3292, the police emergency number 0860-010-111, the crime SMS line 32211 or the nearest police station.