Gauteng sports, arts, culture and recreation MEC Faith Mazibuko was caught in an audio clip where she verbally abused her staff and used race as she instructed them to use the department's funds to assist ANC campaign for the elections. The recording was leaked to amaBhungane where Mazibuko can be heard screaming and telling her staff to expedite a "combi courts" project -  facilities that can accommodate various sports. She can be heard saying that she wants the project  completed in "this financial year" as they want to useit to campaign for elections. "... that combi court, we want to use it to campaign to win elections," Mazibuko can be heard. A member of her staff tries to tell her that they cannot find a "legal mechanism" and that "there is not a valid contract in place" to roll out the project but Mazibuko did not have any of that. "Lalelani la you two, you two, I want those combi courts. I want those combi courts. How you do that, if it meant you go construct them with your hands you better do it. I want those combi courts, no roll over of that money of combi courts you two," she screams while seemingly tapping the table. She also tells the staff that her office is the only one with a white head of department and an Indian financial officer. "It's clear you are not ready to work in this environment, I empower you you are not empowerable. Which other department has an Indian that is a CFO? Which other department? You are the second one, a woman, you must thank your lucky stars. "Which department has an HOD that is a mlungu? Ayikho including national so you must thank me for empowering you so don't sabotage me," she said. Mazibuko goes to an extent of saying that the staff should hand in their resignations if they cannot deliver the combi courts. "If you're prepared to give me stories, then give me your resignation letters. Then I'll find new people who are prepared to spend my money." TimesLIVE reported that her department said Mazibuko was merely pushing for service delivery targets to be met. "The department would like to state that at no stage in any meeting with her staff did MEC Mazibuko give unlawful instructions, except to stress the importance of achieving performance targets of the department and fulfilling promises made to communities as part of service delivery agreements," departmental spokesperson Nomazwe Ntlokwana said on Wednesday evening.