The Mpumalanga woman who accused Deputy President David Mabuza of plotting to kill conservationist Fred Daniels  is facing other charges that include armed robbery with aggravating circumstances. The woman, who was allegedly also found in possession of house robbery equipment when she was arrested by the Hawks earlier this month, appeared in the Nelspruit regional court yesterday. Prosecutor in the case, Advocate Henry Nxumalo, told the  court  he intended to oppose bail based on the information that the accused, Nomfundo Sambo, 32, was facing other  pending case. Sambo caused a storm last year after claiming to have witnessed deputy president Mabuza’s diary bearing a plan to murder Daniels. In an affidavit, in which Sambo called herself Thandeka Mabuza, a niece to the deputy president, claimed that while helping at Mabuza’s house in Johannesburg on November 5, 2018, she stumbled on Mabuza’s diary that detailed a plot to assassinate Daniels, a Mpumalanga-based conservationist. Mabuza and Daniels have a history of public spate which led to Daniels seeking a court order stopping Mabuza from interfering in his businesses. Spokesperson  of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Monica Nyuswa told Sowetan the accused was found in possession of housebreaking equipment and is also facing another charge of armed robbery with aggravating circumstances . “The accused was  granted bail on an armed robbery  with aggravating circumstances case. She is also facing a charge of possession of house robbery equipment. That is why the state intends to oppose bail,” said Nyuswa. Sambo was not asked to plead on charges of fraud, forgery and defeating the ends of justice when she appeared in the Nelspruit magistrate’s court yesterday. She was arrested by the Hawks early this month after an investigation revealed that her real name was  Nomfundo Sambo not Thandeka Mabuza who she claimed to be in the affidavit. Hawks spokesperson Brig Hangwani Mulaudzi said the accused’s claims led to a criminal case being opened. “The investigation team needed to interview the complainant as the original statement was not recorded by the police. It became difficult to trace the complainant. It later became common cause that the deputy president was not in the country at the time of the alleged offence,” Mulaudzi said. “It became clear that the statement may have  been fabrication, including her relationship with the deputy president.” Sambo is expected to formally apply for bail on April 3.