A traffic officer went beyond the call of duty when he tried to stop a fleeing motorist by hanging on to the bonnet of the car for dear life. In an incident that was widely condemned by Gauteng government and users of social media, the driver of the car tried to race away from the scene to avoid a fine after being caught using her cellphone while driving. In a video circulating on social media, an Audi can be seen cruising along with the officer lying sprawled on the bonnet, much to the shock of a passing motorist. Gauteng traffic police, in a preliminary report posted on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon, said that an officer was busy issuing a fine for cellphone usage on September 13 when the 27-year-old female driver drove away with the officer hanging on the bonnet. The incident happened in Krugersdorp on Friday, September 13. Officers in an unmarked minibus taxi pursued the driver, who was later arrested and "detained on several charges". These included a failure to comply with instructions of a traffic officer, reckless driving and resisting arrest. “Oh my god! What’s happening here?” said the person taking the video after shouting, “Stop the car.” The Audi is ultimately brought to a halt as a white minibus cuts the car off. The sliding door flies open and someone gets out to offer support. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula retweeted the video, but did not offer any comment on what he had seen. The Gauteng department of community safety condemned the incident. "... the conduct of a 27-year-old female driver who was seen driving her car with a female traffic officer from Gauteng Traffic Police on her bonnet," said the department's spokesperson Ofentse Morwane. "The driver was immediately arrested for failing to comply with an instruction of a traffic officer, reckless driving and resisting arrest. A fine was also issued for driving while on a cellphone," read the statement. "The conduct displayed by the driver is not only reckless but also smacks of arrogance. With the province experiencing a high number of unnecessary crashes and fatalities on our roads, it is of utmost importance that our law enforcement agencies should stamp their authority on those who disregard the rules of the road. "Drivers are supposed to conduct themselves in a manner that is acceptable and respect authorities. "The conduct of the driver in question is punishable at all costs and will never be allowed. Irrespective of the attitude of road users, we will continue to stamp our authority and do our work without fear and favour,’’ said Morwane.