Taking into account Orlando Pirates' struggles at the hands of Cape Town City in the past few years, the Bucs will be out for revenge in tomorrow's Absa Premiership game at Orlando Stadium (3pm). City have inflicted a lot of pain on Pirates. In the 2018/19 season, the Citizens ended Pirates' title hopes by beating them 1-0 towards the end of the season. Again last term, the Benni McCarthy-mentored side more than dented Bucs' ambitions of winning the league, holding them to a 2-2 draw in the penultimate fixture. All in all, Pirates have managed one league win against City, with three draws and a defeat. Heading into tomorrow's encounter, both teams have conceded nine goals in six league outings. With either side's recent defensive fragility, this match promises to produce some goals. However, City defender Taariq Fielies, who has just recovered after he had his appendix removed, is optimistic that they will keep a clean sheet. The 26-year-old defender made his return in their 1-1 stalemate against Golden Arrows last week. "As a defender my aim is always to avoid conceding, so against Pirates it's no different. I am positive that we can keep them at bay and get a clean sheet," said Fielies. "It's about time the team stopped conceding goals. I feel like I am the solution to that [leaky defence]. I am very happy to be back and I am ready to help the team challenge for the league," he said. A few weeks ago, McCarthy underlined the importance of Fielies in the heart of Cape Town City rearguard, saying the defender would bring "calmness and aggression". "The coach has always had faith in me. I want to prove him right by giving my all in all games. It was humbling hearing him speaking fondly about me," said Fielies. City will be without defender in Abbubaker Mobara. The ex-Bucs man will be out for at least two months due to an ankle injury. Pirates, meanwhile, will count on the form of Tshegofatso Mabasa, who netted thrice in the last two games, to see them to victory. Fixtures (3pm unless stated) Today: Maritzburg v Chippa, Harry Gwala Stadium, 8pm Tomorrow: Arrows v Stellenbosch, Sugar Ray Xulu Stadium; Pirates v CPT City, Orlando; Chiefs v Baroka, FNB, 6pm; SuperSport v AmaZulu, Lucas Moripe Stadium, 8.15pm Sunday: Highlands v Polokwane, Makhulong; Leopards v Celtic, Thohoyandou