It's now or never for Kaizer Chiefs in the title race as they welcome Baroka to FNB Stadium tomorrow (6pm). Amakhosi still have an outside chance of winning the league, but they cannot afford to drop any more points. After drawing 1-1 with SuperSport United in their last league outing, they face a Baroka side that is desperate for points since they are staring relegation in the face. The spotlight now falls on the likes of striker Leonardo Castro to get the goals for Chiefs and see if their outside chance could amount to something. "We are focused on our home game now. We all know we have to take these three points to be closer to the top of the log," Castro commented ahead of the clash. The Colombian is your typical South American who would fight to the end during a game and wants to carry the same attitude in the league despite being the team being far off the pace. "The league is not finished yet, so something may happen," he insisted. The former Mamelodi Sundowns striker, however, has urged Chiefs to focus on their own game without being distracted about who's ahead of them. "In my mind, from my side, I think we need to be focused on our team, that's all," he said. "We need to take these points and obviously it's step by step . maybe something is going to happen [before] the end. "For the team, the motivation is always there. We know the games that are left and maybe Sundowns is going to drop points or [Orlando] Pirates or [Bidvest] Wits. We need to be able to win those matches that are remaining," Castro added. Besides Castro, Chiefs can count on players such as midfielder Hendrick Ekstein, who's been playing better these days despite the fact that he's yet to renew his contract. Baroka, meanwhile, are likely to hand midfielder Thandani Ntshumayelo his debut. "Bibo" signed for the Limpopo side last month after his return to football following a drugs ban. In five previous league meetings between the two sides, Chiefs and Baroka have one win each, while three matches have been drawn.