What's really stopping you from saving? Why is saving so hard? We know there are many demands being made on your money: school fees, transport, food, airtime, black tax ... the list is long. But we also know that – just like we know we shouldn’t smoke, or that we should eat less and exercise – all of us need to save. We want to know what is keeping you from making your own financial future brighter and more secure. Help us by answering the six easy questions below before Wednesday May 8 2019. This survey is presented in conjunction with SowetanLIVE and the Tiso Blackstar Group Money team. Ten lucky readers will each win a R500 voucher from Satrix, a leading provider of index tracking products in South Africa, to start their investing journey. Read these competition rules carefully. These competition rules explain your rights and duties in connection with this competition. If you take part in this competition and/or accept any prize awarded, these rules will apply to you and you agree that the promoter can assume that you have read and agreed to be legally bound by these competition rules. THE COMPETITION Participants stand to win one of ten R500 SatrixNOW vouchers. Terms and conditions apply to the voucher as set out on the voucher. THE PRIZE The prize is a R500 SatrixNOW voucher. The voucher is redeemable by a winning participant from the SatrixNOW website only in accordance with the terms of the voucher. To redeem the voucher, the participant must open a SatrixNOW account, subject to prior acceptance of the usage terms for such account. This will include providing the necessary KYC documentation for FICA purposes and accepting the terms and conditions for a SatrixNOW account. HOW TO ENTER HOW THE WINNER WILL BE CHOSEN Every person that completed the survey between April 25 2019 and May 7 2019 will be eligible for the prize draw. The draw will be performed by an independent judge whose decision will be final. No correspondence will be entered into. The winner of the prize will be randomly selected and be notified via email or telephone by May 31 2019. We can extend this date in our sole discretion should we deem it necessary. ELIGIBILITY TO ENTER The competition is open to entrants who are permanently resident in SA and over 18 years of age. You may not enter if it will be unlawful for you to invest in products offered via the SatrixNOW website (i.e. Satrix funds). Any person who is a director, employee or agent of, or a consultant to Satrix Managers (RF) Proprietary Limited or any of its affiliates or a supplier of goods or services in connection with the competition, including but not limited to Satrix’s advertising agency and their service providers and the spouse, life partner, business partner or immediate family members of such a person, may not enter the competition. PERSONAL INFORMATION The personal information collected when entering the competition will only be used in the process of administering the competition. In accordance with consumer protection laws, Satrix, as the promoter, must ensure that an independent person oversees and certifies the conducting of the competition. Satrix will be required to share certain personal information of participants with this independent person (an auditor) to enable the auditor to discharge its duties. Satrix will ensure that only the minimum information is shared with the auditor and legally oblige the auditor to only use the personal information for the purpose of administering the competition. The personal information collected when signing up for a SatrixNOW account will be used by Satrix and its administrators to provide financial services subject to the terms and conditions on the SatrixNOW website. By entering the competition you may authorise Satrix and its appointed agents to collect, store and use (not share) the personal information of participants to administer the competition and to communicate with participants regarding the competition. You may either decline or authorise Satrix to receive marketing communication from Satrix. If you win, Satrix may publish your full name, but you may refuse to participate in any further marketing activity related to the competition. QUESTIONS ABOUT THE RULES Please contact Nicolé Cupido at nicolecu@satrix.co.za if you have any questions regarding these rules or you require a copy of these competition rules. IMPORTANT You agree to indemnify the promoter(s) fully for any loss or damage the promoter(s) may suffer because you breached the competition rules. This means you agree to reimburse the promoter(s) for the following: any loss or damage they suffer, and any expenses and costs they paid or are responsible for. Legal costs mean costs on an attorney and own client scale. You also agree to indemnify the promoter(s) for any loss or damage you suffered because you took part in this competition or used the prize. If you enter yourself, or use or accept the prize, you understand that you do so of your own free will. This means that you cannot hold the promoter(s) legally responsible for any loss or damage or legal expenses you suffered because you took part in this competition or used the prize. You will protect the promoter(s) from being held legally responsible for the loss or damage or legal expenses of another person (legal or natural) if such loss or damage or expense was incurred because you: a) breached the competition rules b) took part in this competition or c) and such person used a prize. Satrix Managers (RF) (Pty) Ltd (Satrix) is a registered and approved manager in collective investment schemes in securities and an authorised financial services provider in terms of the FAIS.