Deceased Free State Stars football star Sinethemba Jantjie's family are at loggerheads with two of his baby mamas over his R1m Old Mutual life cover policy payout. Jantjie died at the age of 30 in a car crash in Free State on April 1. The family and Jantjie's baby mamas were also said to be fighting over the handling of the soccer player's funeral by his family, which according to one of the women, was a sham. A lack of proper catering that resulted in mourners going hungry was one of the low points Jantjie's women raised in their complaints. Sunday World has also learnt that Jantjie was scheduled to pay ilobolo for his fiance of two years Yolanda Sandi two weeks from the day he died. As if that was not enough, the fiance, had also miscarried their unborn baby two weeks before the player passed away. It is understood that one of the baby mamas and Jantjie's fiance accused the family of pocketing almost R110,000 instead of spending it to ensure that the player received a dignified funeral. The battle has now left Jantjie's agent Ratshi Ratshibvumo to play referee between the parties as he was the one responsible for the acquisition of the insurance on behalf of the player. Ratshibvumo confirmed that Jantjie had a R1m life cover policy and funeral plan with the giant insurer. However, he said Jantjie's sister Portia was the only one nominated as the beneficiary on the policy even though the player had two kids from different women and a fiancée whom he was due to marry shortly. "My understanding is that an amount of R50, 000 was paid to Jantjie's sister by Old Mutual for the funeral and she will also receive the life cover payment," said Ratshibvumo. The player agent said he was the one who informed the family about the life cover and funeral plan saying that it was only he and Jantjie's fiancée who knew about the policies. "I informed Sinethemba's sister who was the beneficiary that she must take R500,000 for the family and set aside the other R500,000 for his two kids, and she agreed," he said. However, Ratshibvumo said after the funeral the family, Portia in particular, allegedly changed tune and told the two baby mamas, who cannot be named for legal reasons, that the family was no longer going to put aside the money for their sprogs as agreed with Jantjie's agent but they will only pay as and when they have money. Ratshibvumo revealed that Jantjie's sister was now ignoring his calls when he wanted to understand the reasons behind the family's decision to exclude the kids from the payout. He also said he had already enquired with the PSL about Jantjie's insurance payout believed to be R4m, which will go to his family and club. "The PSL told me that they have appointed a team to investigate the claim and as soon as the investigation were complete, money will be paid out. I'm going to make sure that the kids get their share from the payout," he said. One of Jantjie's baby mamas from his home town, Whittlesea - in Eastern Cape, confirmed that she had been left in the dark about her baby daddy's policies. The lady said she last heard from Jantjie's family on the day of his burial, and on that day they only promised to support the child now that his father was no more. "His sister only asked me to give her my child's details and said she will make sure that she pays R1,000 per month. But she did not mention to me that Jantjie had policies which she was planning to claim," said the woman. She said she later learnt through Jantjie's agent that there were policies worth millions in the player's name. "If I had not asked his agent, I would not have known about the policies. I really need the money to look after the child. "Even if the family can invest it somewhere and we get a monthly allowance that will help," she said. She said she had concerns about the handling of the funeral, stating that a lot of things did not go well. "I know that people were complaining about food but I had told myself that maybe Jantjie did not leave any money. But to my shock, one of my cousins who is close to Jantjie's sister told me that the family received R100,000 towards the funeral." Another baby mama from Bethlehem, in Free State, told Sunday World she was still devastated by Jantjie's death, stating that she now had no one to turn to for support of her child. The woman, who said she was a college student, said that she only met Jantjie's family for the first time after he died when they had come to his club offices in Bethlehem. She said she met the family with her parents to officially introduce their child to Jantjie's brother and sister. "Initially they did not believe us and we had to show them DNA test results to prove that the child was Jantjie's," she said. The woman said the family welcomed the child but told her that Jantjie had four other children with different mothers and that she must not expect to get anything from his estate as he left nothing behind. "They then offered that they will try to support the child by paying at least R750 per month as they could not afford to pay the R3,000 I used to receive from him. But they are not taking our calls anymore," she said. The woman said Jantjie used to pay R1,500 for child support, R200 for medical care, R400 towards transport and R700 for day care for their 15-month-old child. "I don't know how I am going to pay for all these things because I'm not working and my mother is also unemployed." Sandi told Sunday World she had come to terms with the fact that she wasn't going to get anything from her lover's estate. She also said she was disturbed by the manner in which Jantjie's family handled herfiance's funeral. She cited lack of food, including for Free State Stars contingent, as the biggest problem during the funeral. She said she informed the family on time that four buses, carrying supporters and players were coming to the player's funeral. "The only thing that was okay was the casket. The rest was just a disaster," said Sandi. The fiance said at the time of his death, Jantjie was planning to pay ilobolo for her, and that they were to move into a house in Joburg which the player was in the process of buying. She also confirmed she miscarried their baby two weeks before his passing. "I still haven't recovered from the loss. It's just too much for me." Sandi said she knew about Jantjie's two kids and she was concerned about the family's alleged decision to deny his kids a share of the life cover payout. "I hope they will find it in their hearts to share the money with the children because that's what he would have wanted."