The Wayne Arendse matter that’s been haunting Mamelodi Sundowns in the run-in to the end of the Absa Premiership season is not the only one pending against the defending champions‚ Premier Soccer League (PSL) prosecutor Nande Becker has said. Four other disciplinary matters involving Sundowns include two cases against head coach Pitso Mosimane. One involves the utterances he made after a match‚ and the second pertains to a scuffle that Mosimane had with AmaZulu security official‚ Satchmo Ngwenya‚ in a match that was played in September in Durban. Yet two more matters relate to the charge of Sundowns failing to provide adequate security in their home game against Orlando Pirates in November where Bucs assistant-coach Rulani Mokwena was attacked by fan. The last case stems from Sundowns fans’ misbehaviour in their away match against Bidvest Wits in February. While Patrice Motsepe’s team may come to know their fate on Friday on the Arendse case‚ the other four cases look far from being finalised. Even Friday’s sentencing in the Arendse saga appears likely to be postponed due to the team‚ and many of their officials‚ being in Egypt for Downs’ second leg of their Caf Champions League quarterfinal‚ where they meet Al Ahly in Alexandria on Saturday. Becker said it has been difficult for the PSL to conclude all these pending matters involving Sundowns mainly because of their involvement in the Champions League. “There’s one person [Becker] here dealing with matters coming from the 32 clubs‚” said Becker on Tuesday as he tried to clarify why there has been so much backlog in the PSL cases brought to his attention. “The work volume is substantial and I don’t have the luxury of dealing with one matter at any given time. Currently I have six matters that require my attention.” Becker confirmed that the matter involving Arendse will be finalised on Friday. “The first matter relates to Sundowns and coach Pitso Mosimane. Improper statements were made by the coach‚” the PSL’s prosecutor said. “The matter has been argued on the 22nd of October and the finding has been handed down by the disciplinary committee and we are waiting for the opportunity of submitting heads of arguments with regard to sanction. “The second also involves Sundowns coach Mosimane‚ where there was an assault by the coach on a security official in the AmaZulu match. This matter was heard in October and the finding has come up. “The coach and the club were found guilty and we have to find the time to argue the issue of sanction. “The other matter is that of a match between Sundowns and Orlando Pirates‚ which was played at Loftus towards the end of last year. "The charge against Sundowns was the failure to provide adequate security and there’s an allegation that one of their supporters assaulted the assistant-coach of Pirates [Mokwena]. “The matter was set down for a hearing in March and Sundowns were unavailable due to Caf commitments. So this matter was postponed [no date given yet]. “The last matter involves Sundowns fans’ misbehavior in the away match against Wits. The matter was set down for the hearing on the 26th of March and was postponed to the 2nd of April at the request of Sundowns‚ and further postponed to the 4th of April at the request of Sundowns. “Another request of postponement by Sundowns was declined by disciplinary committee. That matter is pending and heads of arguments have to be filled and it should be finalised by the 29th of April.”