A Vanderbijlpark man has accused police of failing to arrest three men who allegedly attacked him in a road rage incident two years ago. Nkuke Molatedi, 48, told Sowetan he landed in ICU after the attack in which he said the men assaulted him with a brick at a stop sign after they claimed he was driving recklessly. Molatedi said he was driving from work when the men who were in a white Ford Fiesta smashed their car into his mirror. "I was at the stop sign when a driver came from my right mirror. I parked on the side of the road and little did I know they would attack me," he said. "As I was trying to resolve the matter with the driver, one of the male passengers just came from behind me with a brick and hit me on the head. I fell to the ground and stood up feeling dizzy. There was blood dripping from my head." Molatedi opened a case of assault against the alleged perpetrators and said the police did not inform him his case had been closed because they could not locate the assailants. A medical report he showed Sowetan indicated that he sustained deep laceration with four stitches to his head, and injuries on his hands and face. "I have lost all hope in police because they failed to investigate my case or even go to the scene and question the perpetrators while they were still there," he said. Molatedi accused the police of failing to do due diligence in the case by taking statements from all witnesses who were on the scene. He said it was only after he wrote a letter of complaint to the Gauteng police head office that an officer from the police station in Evaton came to his house. "What broke my heart is that after being up and down looking for justice, I only found out that my case was closed without my knowledge," he said. He said due to the serious injuries he suffered he continues to have headaches. Police spokesperson Sgt Gertrude Makhale confirmed that the case was closed. However, she said she would investigate under what circumstances the case was closed. "We have scheduled a meeting with the station to check the docket for a follow-up."