The Easter long weekend is always one of the busiest traffic periods on the N3 Toll Route between Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Traffic is expected to increase sharply in a southbound direction (towards KwaZulu-Natal) from midday on Thursday April 18 and high traffic volumes will continue until Friday April 19. Thereafter, the busy conditions will taper off until Easter Monday, April 22, when peak traffic conditions are expected throughout the day, especially northbound (towards Gauteng), as holidaymakers return from their long-weekend breaks. Between 2,500 and 3,500 vehicles per hour are expected to use the N3 Toll Route at peak times, with Easter Monday being particularly busy as road users head home after the long weekend. “N3 Toll Concession (N3TC) highly recommends road users plan their trips in order to travel outside peak times. Do not leave your departure for your destination until too late in the day. At peak times, the risks and demands on drivers increase exponentially,” says N3TC commercial manager Con Roux. “Being informed of road and travel conditions helps you make safe choices prior to and during your journey. Unforeseen incidents, changing weather patterns and emergency situations can all affect traffic conditions.” N3TC manages the N3 Toll Route between Cedara in KwaZulu-Natal and Heidelberg in Gauteng. Stay up to date with the latest news from N3 Toll Route and get verified traffic information by contacting the 24-hour N3TC Helpline on 0800 63 4357. Essential information is also shared regularly on N3TC’s Twitter page. Report any problems or obtain emergency assistance by contacting the N3TC Helpline. The nearest N3TC route patrol team will be dispatched to help ensure your safety. These highly trained teams provide help at crash scenes and with vehicle breakdowns. They also provide basic emergency medical care, assist with fire-fighting, remove hazardous objects from the road and do regular patrols to ensure conditions along the N3 Toll Route remain as safe as possible. Traffic volume forecast If at all possible, road users are encouraged to travel outside peak periods. High volumes are expected on: During peak periods, all toll plazas on the N3 Toll Route will operate at capacity and no road works will take place unless essential. Every effort is being made to ensure road safety, and all emergency services and law enforcement authorities will be on high alert along the entire route. Road users can expect visible policing, traffic checkpoints, random drug and alcohol screening tests, and active law enforcement. “Make an effort to know what is up ahead before you set out on your travels. It is always better to know what challenges you may encounter and how best to prepare for these. We wish you a safe and pleasant holiday. Take extra care this Easter,” says Roux. This article was paid for by N3 Toll Concession.