The family of an unemployed woman who died after being run over by a car is seeking answers after the alleged killer was set free. Hilda Mokoena, 29, was killed instantly when she was hit by a bakkie driven by the son of the owner of a company in Middelburg, Mpumalanga, where the group of job seekers protested more than a week ago. However, after the man's arrest, he was released after the charges were provisionally withdrawn, despite Mokoena's family and the community claiming that there was footage which showed exactly what happened. In the video clip, a bakkie believed to be that of Federal Stene owner's son can be seen driving through the crowd at high speed. People can be seen running and scattering as the driver makes a U-turn and drives back into the crowd until he hits Mokoena. Another video shows people running away as gunshots are fired, allegedly by the driver of the bakkie. Mokoena's cousin, Thobile Malatji, says the family wants justice. "What makes us angry is that the person who did this is walking free just because he has money. There is no justice for the poor in this country," Malatji said. Malatji said Mokoena, who relocated from their home in Limpopo in search of greener pastures years ago, joined a community unemployment structure and hoped she would find a job. "She had dreams of building her mother a house but now all of that will never happen." Mokoena's close friend, Dudu Shabalala, recalled the shock of seeing her friend lying dead on the ground. Shabalala said they had both left home in the morning to attend a march to two factory plants, Federal Stene and Gradco, which are under the same company. Shabalala said she moved away from Mokoena to check on what was happening when she heard a commotion a few metres away from where they were standing. "All of a sudden, a bakkie drove through the crowd at a very high speed. People were running away. The bakkie came back and I ran to the other side of the road," she said. Shabalala said after the chaos had settled, she called Mokoena but a man answered the phone. "When I got there I kept asking 'where is Hilda?' They pointed me to the ground where she was lying dead." Mhluzi Unemployment Structure president, Dion Sibeko, said police had failed the community. "They say the case was withdrawn because of conflicting statements. They are ignoring the fact that there's a video." Sibeko said people were angry and wanted justice. He said the company has apparently contributed R52,000 towards Mokoena's funeral but this was not enough to appease her death. Provincial police spokesperson Col Mtsholi Bhembe said the case was provisionally withdrawn due to lack of sufficient evidence. Bhembe said more investigations will be conducted before it can be taken back to court. He said they were investigating cases of murder, attempted murder and public violence. He said the 28-year-old man was arrested after being handed over to police by his lawyer and shortly released from custody.