Everything is more expensive these days. Beyond Woolworths’ special water, even bread seems to have turned against us – and our wallets. But that doesn’t mean we don’t want the most bang for our bucks. With every new cellphone drop going the way of iPhone pricing, it’s getting harder to find nice enough phones that won’t make your bank account laugh at you. That’s where a nice mid-range comes in, and in the case of the Samsung A6 and the Huawei P smart, it’s more of a mid-in-the-range-of-money situation, not in quality. Although the Samsung A6+ is a smidge bigger, sporting an extra 5mm in height and 2mm in width, you are still left with a smaller screen because of the chunky bevels. The A6+ sports a 15,24cm AMOLED screen, compared with the Huawei 15,7cm LCD. It’s these chunky bevels that unfortunately gives the A6+ that older-generation look compared with its notched Huawei compatriot. It’s not a small thing to overlook when you take your phone out of your pocket and want that extra flash. On the back design, the A6+ has a smooth matte look whereas the P smart is the shinier of the pair. Although the smoother plastic of the P smart is more prone to fingerprint smudges, it still looks slicker and more expensive. Here the A6+ out-delivers on the front camera, offering 24MP, dwarfing the ability of its 8MP P smart compatriot. Both have dual back cameras, but the Samsung still nudges past its competitor with a 16MP and 5MP duo versus the P smart’s 13MP and 2MP depth cam for its portrait mode. But thanks to the AI photo capabilities hooked up to the P smart’s camera, you get object and scene recognition, as well as intelligent filters such as the much-loved Huawei night mode, which makes up for some of that shortfall. Both phones take photos in HDR, can shoot panoramas, and film video at 1,080 pixels at 30 frames per second. On the backs of both phones you will find fingerprint scanners, but the P smart also comes with facial recognition software. On most of the nitty-gritty front, the phones are pretty much the same. The much-improved HiSilicon Kirin 710 chip makes for a pretty equal comparison with the A6+’s Qualcomm Snapdragon 450, both running on 3GB RAM. They both have micro-USB chargers that charge their 3,400mAh/3,500mAh batteries fast enough that you can be on the go again in 30 minutes. The biggest differences relate to storage. The P smart gives you double the amount of storage space, sporting 62GB, versus the A6+'s 32GB. And the P smart comes with Android 9 right out of the box, with the A6+ still on Android 8. Plus the dual SIM on the P smart allows you to have a data-only SIM, like those offered by Rain, so you can get cheaper data on the side. The other big difference is the price. The recommended retail price of the Samsung A6+ is R6,499 and the Huawei P smart comes in at R1,500 less, priced at R4,999. There you have it; judge for yourselves. This article was paid for by Huawei.