The DA-led City of Tshwane has pressed criminal charges against the brother of former mayor Solly Msimanga after he was allegedly caught on camera stealing "100 computers". The arrest of Nkululeko Msimanga, who is an employee of the city, was confirmed on Friday by Norman Mohale, the spokesperson of Tshwane mayor Stevens Mokgalapa. "Yes we can confirm that he was arrested and we found some criminal evidence as the city and handed it to the police," said Mohale. He said the city will take Nkululeko through a disciplinary process while he will also face the criminal case. Sowetan, however, could not immediately verify the case with the police. DA Gauteng provincial leader John Moodey said in a statement the party "could not find any confirmation of the so-called arrest and call on the ANC to provide the proof of the arrest". "If any evidence of wrongdoing is presented then a case should be opened and an investigation conducted swiftly to get to the truth of the matter. "The DA believes in the rule of law and in swift but fair justice. "Nkululeko Msimanga was appointed to the Tshwane Municipality as a revenue consultant in 2015, a year before the DA-led coalition government was formed," said Moodey. Lesego Makhubela, the ANC Tshwane caucus spokesperson, said the party was shocked and disgusted by the arrest. "It is quite clear that ... Msimanga presided over a kleptocratic government which employed at the nerve center and at the heart of the city’s administration, body builders, incompetent, unqualified, inexperienced and unskilled, relatives, friends and white DA members. "The ANC calls on the city to investigate how Solly Msimanga’s younger brother was employed as a revenue consultant in the city and whether he qualified for the position in which he is employed. "The city of Tshwane has been turned by Solly Msimanga and his cronies as their personal fiefdom in which they are not only involved in large scale corruption, but also in petty crimes such as the theft of the city’s assets. Citing reports, Makhubela said over 100 computers were allegedly stolen by Nkululeko who was "caught on surveillance video camera following investigation by city officials who became concerned after computers started missing over a period of months from 2016". Makhubela called the provincial police commissioner to oversee the case until its conclusion to avoid foul play. "We also applaud officials of the city who reported this case to the police. By robbing the call centre of this computers in this manner of brazen criminality, Solly's younger brother has robbed society as a whole," said Makhubela.