India cricket chiefs Wednesday ordered star all-rounder Hardik Pandya to explain sexist comments made on a TV chat show despite his apologies for the remarks that sparked social media outrage. Pandya said he "got a bit carried away" as he explained his bragging about his prowess with women on the show that aired Sunday. Pandya and batsman Lokesh Rahul, who also took part in the interview, have both been ordered to explain their comments. Both are currently on India's tour of Australia. "We have sent show cause notices to Hardik Pandya and K.L. Rahul for their comments," Board of Control for Cricket in India administrator Vinod Rai was quoted as saying by the Press Trust of India news agency. "They have been given 24 hours to give an explanation." The announcement came only a few hours after the 25-year-old Pandya posted his apology on social media. "After reflecting on my comments on Koffee with Karan, I would like to apologise to everyone concerned who I may have hurt in any way," Pandya said on Twitter. "Honestly, I got a bit carried away with the nature of the show. In no way did I mean to disrespect or hurt anyone's sentiments. Respect," he added. The show hosted by Bollywood producer and director Karan Johar encourages guests to open up on personal matters. Pandya, who was in the squad that beat Australia for the first time in an away Test series, boasted about his success with multiple women. "I like to watch and observe how they move," he said adding how he paid particular attention to "the backside". Pandya also said he had bragged to his parents after losing his virginity. He was quickly slammed for his views on women. "#KoffeeWithCricketers was just the worst episode. What's up with all the #misogyny. Tired of this boys will be boys attitude," Ekta Chauhan, a Twitter user, wrote. "To say the least #HardikPandya is horrendous a misogynist," added another user who called for Indian cricket authorities to take action against the "obnoxious" comments. Pandya is still expected to play in three one-day internationals against Australia starting Saturday in Sydney. Pandya and Rahul also caused a social media stir for comments on the same show when they said current India skipper Virat Kohli was a better batsman than the country's cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar.