Tshwane municipal manager Moeketsi Mosola enters a make-or-break week as both the DA and the ANC call for his head, after the auditor-general found that the city's R1.2bn contract was awarded irregularly. The controversial contract awarded to engineering company Glad Africa has been the source of the fallout between Mosola and outgoing mayor Solly Msimanga. The auditor-general's report will be tabled at Thursday's much-awaited council meeting which many in Tshwane believe will be Mosola's day of reckoning. The AG found that the contract was not in compliance with the supply chain regulation 32, which allows accounting officers to procure services for the municipality under a contract secured by another organ of the state. Mosola refused to comment on calls for his axing when Sowetan approached him for comment. "The auditor-general's report is now a City of Tshwane council report and it will serve in council on January 31 2019. I have no authority to comment on council reports before they serve in council," Mosola said. He said he would only release a statement once the report had gone through "all the normal City processes pertaining to the conclusion of the AG's annual report". ANC Tshwane chairman Dr Kgosi Maepa told Sowetan yesterday that they hold Mosola and Msimanga "equally responsible for the Glad Africa mess". "Our position is that both of them messed up [on the Glad Africa contract], and ANC stands by its position which we've held for seven months... and the auditor-general has now proved it," Maepa said. The AG's report, which Sowetan has seen, stated that disciplinary steps on the irregular awarding of the Glad Africa contract awaited an under-way investigation whose outcome was still pending. Mosola is also embroiled in a labour court dispute with Msimanga over an investigation into the same contract, which the city has to date spent almost R318m on. Mosola prevented the tabling of the investigation's findings in council last year, arguing that Msimanga had not followed proper processes in instituting the investigation into the awarding of the Glad Africa tender. Tshwane MMC for finance Mare-Lise Fourie said Msimanga will now ask attorneys that the labour court matter be fast-tracked "so that the matter can be unblocked and the preliminary report can be tabled in council so there can be accountability". "Tshwane residents deserve officials that they can trust, who responsibly spend every cent to create opportunities for all," Fourie said. "It is in this regard that this administration will not stop until accountability for this highly irregular contract is upheld."