It was a moment nothing short of amazing and historical when South Africa's very own Miss SA , Zozibini Tunzi was crowned Miss Universe at the Tyler Perry Studios in Atlanta last night. Looking  breathtaking in a gold and blue  Biji Gibbs  gown which is said to have been  inspired by the African soil and the Eastern Cape's coastline  at sunrise, the 26-year-old wept as Catriona Gray, Miss Philippines Universe 2018 placed the crown on her head. Set to move to New York and start her reign as Miss Universe,  here are  seven things you may not know about her. Zozi's mother is a school principal at Bangweni Junior Secondary School in a village in the Eastern Cape called Bolotwa. Her father works at the Department of Higher Education and Training in Pretoria. Zozi herself is known for her passion for  education. On being crowned Miss SA, she once said: “I stand for the education of the South African youth, for equality and representation. As a Miss South Africa, I cannot wait to make a contribution to those important social causes." As Miss Universe, some of her benefits include a year-long salary thought to be worth more than $100 000 (around R1,475 million), a luxury apartment in New York City, a modelling portfolio by some of the best fashion photographers as well as free dental services, skincare consultations and the services of professional nutritionists. Her Miss Universe crown also comes with  personal  styling by the official Miss Universe Organization fashion stylist. Miss SA and Miss Universe are not the only pageants which Tunzi has won. In 2015, she was crowned Miss Mamelodi Sundowns. She also entered Miss SA twice, making it to the semi-finals in 2017 before she won the pageant in 2019. Born in Tsolo in the Eastern Cape , Zozi is a proud Xhosa woman who enjoys umngqusho (a meal made from samp mealies and sugar beans) with beef stew. Tunzi enjoys a good book, and one of her recent reads is The Secret by Rhonda Bryne, which speaks about the law of attraction and how thoughts have the power to change a person's life. Tunzi is the third South African to  wear the Miss Universe crown. The first was Margaret Gardiner in 1978, followed by Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters in 2017. This  also makes her the first black South African woman to be Miss Universe. The beauty queen describes herself as a pretty good singer even though she doesn’t sing publicly. While she's a strong black woman who is driven, unstoppable and knows what she wants, she suffers from acrophobia (the fear of heights) and typophobia (the fear of holes).