Although it’s a clichéd phrase‚ the Blitzboks are working hard on focusing on the processes that lead to success‚ rather than success itself. After four rounds of the 2018/19 HSBC World Sevens Series the Blitzboks are fourth on the standings‚ a distant 19 points behind pacesetters the USA and New Zealand. Perhaps after two years of World Series success‚ SA lost sight of what made them the best sevens team on the planet by rather focusing on outcomes. Whatever the reasons‚ there is a recommitment to breaking games and tournaments down in to small jobs. The hope that doing those well will lead to ultimate success at this weekend’s Las Vegas leg of the World Series. “We are getting there – the effort is good and the energy is there‚” said 2019 newcomer Impi Visser‚ who is in Nevada for the first time. “The more experienced guys in the squad do help a lot to remind us about the standards and we are working hard to get to that final match. Just like I saw Las Vegas and the lights for the first time‚ that first time in a final is coming. “I have dreamt of playing for the Blitzboks and playing in finals‚ singing the national anthem. Not all of those things have come true yet‚ but it is only a matter of time‚ I believe. "The guys have worked hard and we are pretty focused to deliver our best performance of the series.” Wing Siviwe Soyizwapi has been one of the leading lights for SA this season with 16 tries already during the fraught campaign. The Blitzboks need more of his lethal finishing‚ while he needs the men inside him to create more opportunities to score. “The guys [around me] do the hard work in order for me to finish that off‚ so at times it is an easy job‚” Soyizwapi said. “We are all doing our best to contribute to the team and nothing will be different this weekend. "We have some new faces and some new combinations‚ but the effort will not be new‚ we will still play for the greater good of the team. "Every time I get the ball‚ whether in space or not‚ I want to make the work of the guys next to me pay off.”