Kaizer Chiefs midfielder George Maluleka feels the current team is completely different from the one that was blown away in the previous Soweto derby. It is derby time again as the two giants prepare to battle it out at the FNB Stadium on Saturday (3.30pm). The last time Amakhosi faced their old rivals, they suffered a 2-1 loss in the Telkom Knockout semifinal in November under Giovanni Solinas. That loss in Durban saw the Glamour Boys set a new benchmark for winless streaks against Bucs which now sits at 11 games in all competition. The last time they beat Pirates was in December 2014 where they secured a 2-0 win under Stuart Baxter. "You have seen that we haven't played one formation and we have been able to change things up," Maluleka said. "Even Pirates do the same [alter formations]. It will be an interesting one. They don't know how we are going to come out. Tactics will play a big part. It's dynamic with different formation and different players, so now there is a lot more to offer." Their current mentor, Ernst Middendorp, is looking to snap the undefeated run in his second stint at the club. During his first stint between 2005 and 2007, the German-born tactician was undefeated in the clash with three wins and a draw. With Chiefs on 27 points - 10 points adrift of leaders Bidvest Wits - Maluleka, 30, says it will be key that the team keep within touching distance. "The points would keep us there with the [leading] pack. The points difference is not that much and we need to keep in touch. "A lot can still happen. If we can just collect points, especially at home where we need to be ruthless. To go on all those years without winning silverware is painful. To have that in the back of your mind as players is a lot to take in." Get to the derby with Absa: Sowetan in partnership with Absa, sponsors of the Absa Premiership, are giving away 15 double tickets to the Absa Premiership Soweto Derby between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates on Saturday (FNB Stadium, 3.30pm). These highly sought-after Absa Red Ticket Zone tickets allow fans access to the popular entertainment fan zone and block-booked premium grandstand seating. The Red Ticket Zone opens at 11am until 2.30pm. Each guest will receive food, refreshments, a Woza Nazo hamper and a snack pack ahead of kickoff. Red Ticket Zone winners/ holders must use Gate E to enter the stadium, which is on the Rea Vaya station side by the Soweto Highway. To stand a chance to win SMS Absa followed by your name, surname, ID number and city to 48470 Terms and Conditions: 1. Each SMS is charged at R1.50 and errors will be billed. Free minutes do not apply. 2. The competition closes today at 11:59pm and winners will be notified by SMS. 3 Winners are responsible for their transport to and from the stadium. 4. Tiso Blackstar staff may not enter. Visit:www.sowetan.co.za for more terms and conditions.