Our front page story yesterday about schoolchildren beating a man to death was one of such tales that no longer surprise us. These atrocious incidents have became daily events and they are, worryingly, also happening at school premises. The recent incident involved five suspects aged between 15 and 16 and happened in Flora Park, a suburb in Polokwane, Limpopo. Thorisho Themane, 28, was killed on Saturday and the suspects missed crucial lessons as they appeared in court yesterday. Themane was killed in an alleged gang-related incident which has become something of a fashion among pupils. This type of violence has ended in the rapes, sexual assaults and death of innocent pupils. On page 2 today, we report about another shocking murder of a 13-year-old pupil from a North West school who was killed by his classmate. Madan Motlhamme was stabbed in the stomach on Tuesday at Mateane Primary School in Direetsane village. Madan's death is the latest tragedy in a spate of nine violent incidents that have been reported at SA schools in less than six months. These are shocking statistics considering that these incidents happened at schools which are supposed to be considered safe places for our children. The mayhem has instilled a sense of fear and aversion in the minds of parents and children to an extent that parents are now ambivalent about sending their kids to school. We cannot blame them for being fearful that they may not see their children alive again after they have seen them off to school. The violence at schools paints a picture of a government that is not doing enough to arrest the scourge. Our government should pull out all the stops to ensure the safety of the pupils at school. We are tired of hearing of the umpteenth plan to protect learning institutions across the length and breadth of the country. Recent events are a clear call to all stakeholders that security at schools can no longer be taken for granted while we continue to bury our kids like this. The nation is crying out for strong leadership. Teachers and the larger community must also play their part to make schools safe again.