Clubs sitting above the relegation zone that think they are comfortably clear of danger might be in for a rude shock‚ warns Free State Stars coach Nikola Kavazovic. The Serb predicts some clubs are going to be sucked into the dog fight as the league enters its last 10 weeks of action. The Stars coach‚ whose side are second from bottom‚ feels all the five bottom clubs are going to find form over the next weeks and will start to catch up to the sides above them‚ whose complacency will catch up with them. The coach did not name them but was patently referring to the rest of the teams outside the top eight - AmaZulu‚ Highlands Park and Lamontville Golden Arrows. He was also hinting at seventh placed Polokwane City and eighth placed Bloemfontein Celtic‚ who are both only 10 points above the relegation zone. Of the bottom five‚ Kavazovic says he can see a revival in the works‚ including his own side and Black Leopards‚ who they meet in a crunch game in Bethlehem on Saturday. Of the other three clubs in a range of seven points from 12th to 16th place he added: *“Baroka FC deserved their win over SuperSport last weekend‚ they are playing great. *”Chippa are playing excellent football‚ strong in defence and great with their set pieces. *“Maritzburg showed in their win over Polokwane City that their new coach is bringing back some life to their team. “Other teams are relaxed and they will drop down into our situation soon – mark my words‚” he added. “They can very easily drop down into our area (on the log).” Of his own side‚ who have won five of 20 games this year‚ the Serbian coach said there was an intense team spirit that would help see them to safety. “Our spirit is unbelievable. When I sometimes lose hope and then I see my players‚ my hope is back.” Stars look impressive on Sunday in racing into a 3-0 half-time lead away against Celtic although in the end had to settle for a narrow 3-2 victory. But they next have a tough tussle with Leopards‚ who are just two points above them in the standings. “If we lose to Leopards in Bethlehem‚ it will be like we didn’t beat Celtic at all. it will spoil everything‚” added Kavazovic.