The state capture inquiry on Wednesday heard how Transnet spent billions of rands over five years to procure locomotives from various suppliers. Testifying at the commission, acting manager of governance, risk and compliance at Transnet Janet Walsh broke down the purchase history for the state-owned company's controversial acquisition of locomotives. The purchases were broken down into three different contracts, one for 95 locomotives, another for 100 and a third for 1,064. Transnet spent more than R40bn over the past five years on purchasing the trains, transaction advisory services and relocation costs for suppliers. Sunday Times Politics Weekly – Malema’s sex statements and the Waterkloof fall guy For more episodes, click here. Subscribe: iono.fm | Spotify |  Apple Podcast | Pocket Casts | Player.fm The commission previously heard testimonies about how these deals were shrouded in corruption and procurement irregularities. For example, Transnet, under Brian Molefe's leadership, allegedly flouted the Public Finance Management Act and inflated costs when awarding the multi-billion-rand contracts to build and deliver 95 and 100 locomotives to China South Rail (CSR). The Gupta family is alleged to have secured billions of rands in kickbacks from CSR after the deals were awarded. The commission also heard previously how former Transnet CFO Anoj Singh irregularly appointed Gupta-linked company Regiments Capital as transaction advisers for the deal for the 1,064 locomotives. Others testified that Transnet footed the bill to relocate manufacturing sites for two contractors, China North Rail (CNR) and Bombardier Transport, even though the moves never happened. This is a breakdown, according to Walsh, of all the transactions relating to the locomotive purchases: The total amount paid to all four contractors was about R32.9bn. For the locomotives to be manufactured, facilities for Bombardier and CNR had to be relocated. This cost Transnet about R617m, even though the moves never happened. Transnet then acquired the services of Regiments Capital and McKinsey to provide advice on how to structure the deal for the 1,064 locomotives. Regiments earned about R305m between 2014 and 2016, while McKinsey earned about R11m in 2014. Walsh said there were still payments due for the locomotives.