SuperSport soccer commentator Baba Mthethwa is demanding half of his estranged wife's rich estate that includes a R12m mansion at a top golf estate in Joburg. In a letter sent to Kgomotso Koosimile's lawyers Mckenzie van der Merwe & Willemse by his lawyers Ulrich Roux & Associates two weeks ago, Mthethwa said he wanted an equal share of her estate as he was married to the business tycoon in community of property. The talented and likeable Sotho commentator rejected Koosimile's proposed settlement agreement her lawyers had sent to his attorneys in June. The letter, seen by Sunday World, reads in part: "We confirm receipt of your client's proposed settlement agreement sent to our offices on June 26 2019. We have discussed same with our client who has considered the proposals made therein. Our client has, however, instructed that he is not amenable to the terms made in the proposed agreement. Our respective clients were married in community of property by virtue of the fact that they were married through customary law. We are instructed that all the necessary traditional customs were followed in respect of the conclusion of a traditional marriage. "In the premise, our client has instructed to pursue his half share of the joint estate as he is entitled to do so. We are accordingly instructed to reject your client's settlement offer and instructed that the divorce proceedings should proceed." News that Mthethwa was demanding half of Koosimile's wealth, which includes a fleet of posh cars, was revealed by an unknown source who questioned the validity of their marriage. The source sent us court papers which show that when Koosimile and Mthethwa got married, the former SABC1 sports commentator was still married to Kgomotso Matsetela, who was four years older than him. Mthethwa paid lobola for Koosimile in 2015 while the divorce settlement between him and Matsetela was only finalised in January 2017. In the settlement agreement, Mthethwa took office furniture, two TVs, a TV stand and a bed while Matsetela got their house. Koosimile confirmed that Mthethwa was demanding half of her assets even though she returned his lobola. "I just discovered after sending him that settlement offer that he was still married to another woman. Let me tell you something, I didn't open my legs to accumulate what I have. It was through hard work. He is not going to get a cent. I will fight him with everything I have. It looks like he slept with me for my things and he is not even delicious in bed," she claimed. Koosimile also said Mthethwa ripped her heart from her chest and tore it into shreds when he allegedly became engaged to another woman. She suspected that the engament ring was her dressing ring. "Just after we had separated, I learnt through the media that he had [got] engaged [to] another woman in Durban and this woman was gloating about the same ring that disappeared from the car we were sharing. "He came to my house afterwards and I asked him... but he denied it and we had a big fight over it," she said. Mthethwa rejected Koosimile's claims that the engagement ring he gave his ex-fiancée was her dressing ring. "That was not her ring. When I [got] engaged [to] her I bought her a ring, it was not that one ... But look, please speak to my lawyers and they will respond on my behalf," he said. Mthethwa's lawyers had not returned our phone calls despite promising to do so.