Charges against two people accused of fraud in connection with the fake resurrection at Alleluia Ministries, have been provisionally withdrawn. Gauteng NPA spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the matter against Nkululeko Dlamini, 35, and Silungisani Sibanda (aka Grace Ncube), 40, was struck off the roll in order for the state to investigate the charges further. "Charges have been provisionally withdrawn pending further investigation," Mjonondwane said. According to the court roll at Johannesburg magistrate's court, the pair were due to appear earlier this week, however, charges against them were withdrawn on July 12. Pastor Alph Lukau told Sowetan yesterday that he has consistently maintained his innocence and that the withdrawal of the charges against the two vindicated him. "Many drew conclusions incriminating us of staging a resurrection miracle and hoped that through this case they will find evidence against us. "We have consistently spoken of our innocence and this withdrawal indicates clearly that there is no evidence incriminating us in any wrongdoing ... directly or indirectly. We do not fake miracles, our God is great, we serve him with integrity and in truth," he said. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said in March that the SAPS were investigating three cases of fraud opened in connection with the "resurrection" incident. "One case was opened by a funeral parlour based here in Gauteng, another case was opened by people who said they were concerned citizens, and a third one was opened by pastor Mboro [Paseka Motsoeneng]," said Masondo. Kings and Queens funeral parlour denied any knowledge of the deceased or selling the coffin to the church. Brighton Moyo, 28, the man falsely "brought back to life", has meanwhile died of pneumonia in his home country of Zimbabwe, where he was known as Thabiso Mlanje. Initially dubbed "Elliot" by Alleluia Ministries, he had on a previous occasion been "healed" from being confined to a wheelchair, a colleague of his said. Moyo, who according to his family had been in SA since 2011, had been employed by a door manufacturing company prior to going missing after the "resurrection" hoax.