As election fever kicked in this week with the casting of special votes on Monday and Tuesday ahead of Wednesday's general election, the clarion call on government from the hot spot of Alexandra was to create jobs for the youth. Hilda Nthabane, casting a special vote, said she has been living in Alex in the north of Johannesburg since 1977. The 65-year-old said she moved to one of the city's oldest townships "out of love". "I moved to Alexandra through marriage, otherwise I was a Sowetan. "When I came here in Alexandra, I was surprised to see these type of houses, it was full of imikhukhu (shacks). I came here because I loved my spouse." She said had voted in all six democratic general elections. For Nthabane, a lot has changed since voting post 1994 and now. "The stations were very few and the queues were very long at that time, but now there are more stations that are established. We are now closer to our voting stations." She said the new government that was being elected into power in #SAElections2019 must shift its focus to creating jobs. Nthabane said she has three children who are jobless. She supports her family with the little pension money that she gets monthly. "If they can create more jobs for our children, I'll be very grateful - if they can support their education and help those who are poor to reach their dreams of attending school and universities ..." Another Alexandra resident, Nthabiseng Motsie, said she wanted government to bring biblical education back into schools. "If we engage God in everything, then that is the foundation that we should start on. Our kids these days don't have control and the crime is escalating. "Ladies are being raped and we are mugged everywhere we go. The government should precaution on that [sic]." The 60-year-old will cast her vote on Wednesday. "I would like to change the party I voted for before, but when I see things now, they (other parties) are still going to do the same things. "People are power hungry and put more money in their pockets rather than giving to the community," she said. Molefe Mabasa from Klipfontein View also called for more jobs. "We have guys who are qualified, but there are no jobs. If we can improve on creating jobs for the young children, then we will be heading towards the freedom we fought for," he said.