Deputy President is David Mabuza The Minister of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development Thoko Didiza The Deputy Ministers are Sdumo Dlamini and Mcebisi Skwatsha. The Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga Deputy Minister is Dr Regina Mhaule Minister of Communications Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams Deputy Minister is Pinky Kekana Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs - Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma Deputy Ministers Parks Tau and Obed Bapela Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula Deputy Minister - Thabang Makwetla Minister of Environment, Forestry and Fisheriesis Barbara Creecy Deputy Minister - Maggie Sotyu Minister of Employment and Labour Thulas Nxesi Deputy Minister - Boitumelo Moloi Minister of Finance Tito Mboweni Deputy Minister is Dr David Masondo Minister of Health Dr Zwelini Mkhize Deputy Minister is Dr Joe Phaahla. The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Dr Blade Nzimande. Deputy Minister is Buti Manamela. The Minister of Home Affairs Dr Aaron Motsoaledi. Deputy Minister is Njabulo Nzuza. Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation Lindiwe Sisulu Deputy Ministers are Pam Tshwete and David Mahlobo. Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Dr Naledi Pandor Deputy Ministers are Alvin Botes and Candith Mashego-Dlamini. The Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Ronald Lamola Deputy Ministers are John Jeffery and Inkosi Phathekile Holomisa. The Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy Gwede Mantashe Deputy Minister is Bavelile Hlongwa. Minister of Police General Bheki Cele Deputy Minister is Cassel Mathale The Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu Deputy Minister in the Presidency is Thembi Siweya. The Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities Maite Nkoana-Mashabane Deputy Minister is Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize The Minister of Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan The Deputy Minister is Phumulo Masualle. The Minister of Public Service and Administration Senzo Mchunu. The Deputy Minister is Sindy Chikunga. The Minister of Public Works and Infrastructure Patricia De Lille. The Deputy Minister is Noxolo Kiviet. The Minister of Small Business Development Khumbudzo Ntshavheni. The Deputy Minister is Rosemary Capa. The Minister of Social Development Lindiwe Zulu The Deputy Minister isH enrietta Bogopane-Zulu. The Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa The Deputy Minister is Nocawe Mafu. The Minister of State Security Ayanda Dlodlo. The Deputy Minister is Zizi Kodwa. The Minister of Tourism Nkhensani Kubayi-Ngubane. The Deputy Minister is Fish Mahlalela. The Minister of Trade and Industry Ebrahim Patel. The Deputy Ministers are Fikile Majola and Nomalungelo Gina. The Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula. The Deputy Minister is Dikeledi Magadzi. 