You can expect a fearless TS Galaxy when they take on Kaizer Chiefs in the Nedbank Cup final at Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow night (7pm). Despite playing a topflight side and arguably the favourites in this decider, the National First Division side has shown that they are not intimidated by their PSL opponents. Golden Arrows can attest to this after they were clobbered 3-1 by Galaxy in the last four. Galaxy can even make those dangerous passes inside their own box to entice the opposition to come at them. If nothing changes in their approach, it could make for an interesting match to watch against Amakhosi. Chiefs defender Ramahlwe Mphahlele believes that Dan "Dance" Malesela's boys are going to keep their normal approach. "We have to give them the respect they deserve - they are in the final because they deserve to be in the final. "We are also here [in the final] and we are going it our all. We know we are playing a very good team and that Dance is going to play football," Mphahlele said. "Whether they playSundowns, Chiefs or Pirates, they are going to play. We have to give them full respect," he reiterated. The 29-year-old penned a new two-year deal a couple of months ago and he knows it's important to repay the club, especially after failing to make the top eight in the Absa Premiership. "The hurt of not making the top eight is there. it was disappointing, but now we have something to play for." said Mphahlele. "We've had to dust ourselves off and the reality is we finished ninth. We have to try to move on [by winning the Nedbank Cup]." Key players in Ke Yona final: Fascinating battles... Khama Billiat v Terrence Mashego Billiat can be a handful and the thing is you never know where he's going to operate from on a fulltime basis, because he moves around positions. If he comes through the right, then Mashego will be up against the speedy Zimbabwean. If Billiat operates from the left side and cut inside, Austin Dube will have to keep track of him. Willard Katsande v Nation Ndlovu This is a midfield battle with the potential that could well decide which team wins the match, in a sense that both teams are strong in midfield, whoever comes out on top could influence the game in their team's favour. Katsande, 33, has the experience with many years in the topflight and Ndlovu, 25, can also hold his own as he's demonstrated in this tournament. Zakhele Lepasa v Daniel Cardoso The striker would be buoyed by his brace against Golden Arrows in the semifinals, which propelled The Rockets to the final. Lepasa moves around quite a lot and he will need to be checked constantly. Coming through the central area, he will meet up with the likes of Cardoso, who can be tough on opposition strikers. It makes for an interesting battle.