Former Orlando Pirates and current Zamalek coach Milutin Sredojevic will for now avoid making a forced return to the country after the CAF Champions League draw. This is because Mamelodi Sundowns and the Egyptian giants are set to avoid each other in the group stages of the competition when the draw takes place at the Hilton Pyramids Resort in Cairo tomorrow. Sredojevic hurriedly left the country under a cloud in August after his sudden exit from Pirates, with a case of sexual harassment being probed by the police against him. Sundowns and Zamalek appear to be in Pot 2 of the draw alongside Etoile du Sahel and USM Alger. This means they will avoid each other. Pot 1 has the four biggest teams in Africa according to CAF rankings. This pot includes Esperance, TP Mazembe, Al Ahly and Wydad Casablanca. In an earlier interview, Downs coach Pitso Mosimane lamented CAF's lack of transparency. "You don't have a specific rule on how teams accumulate points. I would expect CAF to publish these rules so that we know," Mosimane said. "Somebody said to me that they count the points over the past five years. You never know with CAF because sometimes you say something but it goes the other way." As always, this year's competition is not without controversy as Zamalek were given a walkover to progress to the group phase. Their opponents in the preliminary round, Generation Foot from Senegal, refused a late venue change and the second leg match never took place. The club has taken Zamalek and CAF to the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS). They are seeking a ruling to replace Zamalek as the rightful team in the group stages. Generation Foot had a 1-0 advantage from the first-leg. CAF Champions League draw pots Pot 1: Esperance (Tunisia), TP Mazembe (DRC), Wydad (Morocco), Al Ahly (Egypt) Pot 2: Sundowns (SA), Etoile du Sahel (Tunisia), Zamalek (Egypt), USM Alger (Algeria) Pot 3: Raja Casablanca (Morocco), Zesco (Zambia), AS Vita (DR Congo), Al Hilal (Sudan) Pot 4: Primeiro (Angola), FC Platinum (Zim), Petro Luanda (Angola), JS Kabylie (Algeria) SportsLIVE PODCAST SPECIAL: "Mark Alexander must step down" over Etzebeth - Claassen For more episodes, click here.